RHDEVDOCS-6343: Content creation for respectRBAC operator (#87695)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-configuring-respect-rbac-using-gitops.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * declarative_clusterconfig/configuring-an-openshift-cluster-by-deploying-an-application-with-cluster-configurations.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-configuring-respect-rbac-using-gitops_{context}"]
= Configuring respectRBAC using {gitops-title}

The `respectRBAC` feature in Argo CD controls how Argo CD watches resources on a cluster. By default, Argo CD attempts to watch all Kubernetes resources (CRDs) on a cluster at the cluster scope. With the `respectRBAC` feature, you can restrict the ArgoCD controller from discovering or syncing specific resources using only controller RBAC, without manually configuring resource exclusions.

To enable this feature, set the `.spec.controller.respectRBAC` key in the Argo CD resource. After you set this key, the controller automatically stops watching resources it cannot list or access. For example, this prevents a situation where the Argo CD cluster role restricts Argo CD from watching OpenShift Routes, which would otherwise result in an error during synchronization, stating that it cannot watch the resource.

> You can enable the `respectRBAC` feature by creating an Argo CD instance in the CLI or the Web UI. 

Author: Fixed.

> .Pre-requisites

Author: Fixed.

Ensure that you created a namespace and updated it in the *Subscription* resource, so it can host a cluster-scoped Argo CD instance. For more information, see Using an Argo CD instance to manage cluster-scoped resources.

[id="configuring-respectRBAC-using-the-cli_{context}"]

> == Configuring respectRBAC using the CLI

Author: Fixed.

> You can configure `respectRBAC` feature in the CLI.

Author: Fixed.

.Procedure

> . Create a YAML object file, for example, `argo-cd-resource.yaml`, to configure the `respectRBAC` feature using the CLI. 

Author: Fixed.

+

> .Example create an Argo CD instance using the respectRBAC feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example `ArgoCD` YAML to create `respectRBAC` 
```

Author: Fixed.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd #<1>
spec:
  controller:
    respectRBAC: strict #<2>
----
<1> Specify the name of the Argo CD instance.

> <2> Specify the value of the `.spec.controller.respectRBAC` key in the Argo CD resource. You can set it to `normal` or `strict`. If the value is set to `strict`, Argo CD performs additional validations of RBAC resources to determine permissions. This setting increases the number of API calls to the server as it is more accurate compared to `normal`. Switch to `strict` if Argo CD reports errors indicating it cannot access resources when the value is set to `normal`. If the value is set to `normal`, Argo CD determines its RBAC permissions by attempting to list each resource. By default it is recommended to start with `normal`, as it balances accuracy and speed because resource listing is a lightweight operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> You can specify the value of the `.spec.controller.respectRBAC` key in the `ArgoCD` resource as `normal` or `strict`. Consider setting a value as `normal` to balance accuracy and speed as resource listing is a lightweight operation. Set the value as `strict` if Argo CD reports errors indicating that it cannot access resources when you set the value as `normal`.  Setting `strict` increases the number of API calls to the server and it is more accurate compared to `normal` as Argo CD performs additional validations of RBAC resources to determine permissions.
```

Author: Fixed.

> . Apply the changes to the YAML object file by running the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the changes to the YAML file by running the following command.
```

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f argocd-resource.yaml -n argo-cd-instance #<1>
----

> <1> Specify the name of the YAML file that includes the Argo CD resource and the namespace that hosts the Argo CD instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Specify the name of the YAML file that includes the `ArgoCD` resource and the namespace that hosts `ArgoCD`.
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> . Verify the successful installation of Argo CD by checking the status of the ArgoCD `.status.phase` field. The {gitops-shortname} Operator sets this field to `Available` when the installation is complete. Run the following command to check the status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the status of the `.status.phase` field is `Available` by running the following command:
```

`.Verification` heading indicates that the steps are checking for successful completion. Hence suggested the above change.

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc get argocd <argocd-instance-name> -n <argocd namespace> -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' #<1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get argocd <argocd_instance_name> -n <argocd_namespace> -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' #<1>
```

- Per this guideline, we use underscores for variables -- https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values
- Add missing `$`

Author: Fixed.

----

> <1> Replace `<argocd-instance-name>` with the name of your Argo CD instance for example, `example-argocd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `<argocd_instance_name>` with the name of your Argo CD instance for example, `example-argocd`.
```

Per this guideline, we use underscores for variables -- https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values

Author: Fixed.

> . After the Argo CD instance is created, verify that the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter in the config map resource is updated successfully by completing the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter in the `ConfigMap` resource is updated successfully:
```

- "After you create the `ArgoCD` instance" -- is already established hence can be removed.
- https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#config-map

Author: Fixed.

.. To retrieve the contents of the `argocd-cm` config map, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc get cm argocd-cm -n <argocd namespace> -o yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc get cm argocd-cm -n <argocd_namespace> -o yaml
```

- `$` and `_` are missing

Author: Fixed.

----

> .. Verify that the `argocd-cm` config map contains the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Verify that the `argocd-cm` config map contains the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter.
```

Missing the command aka the "how" part:
- Please check with SME if something like the following can be used --

`$ oc get cm argocd-cm -n <argocd_namespace> -o=jsonpath="{resource.respectRBAC}"
`

- after adding the command add "by running the following command:" in the step instruction.

Author: Fixed.

[id="configuring-respectRBAC-using-the-web-UI_{context}"]

> == Configuring respectRBAC using the Web UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuring respectRBAC by using the web console
```

Note that web should be in lowercase --  web console

Author: Fixed.

> You can configure `respectRBAC` in the Web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure `respectRBAC` in the web console.
```

Author: Fixed.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {OCP} web console. 

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

. Select *{gitops-title}* from the installed Operators list and click the *Argo CD* tab.

. Configure the `respectRBAC` parameter in the *Argo CD* tab.
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  controller:
    respectRBAC: strict
----

. Click *Create*.
+

> After successful installation, the Argo CD instance is listed under *Argo CD* tab and its Status should be set to *Available*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successful installation, verify that the Argo CD instance is listed under the *Argo CD* tab and the *Status* is *Available*.
```

- Since it's console, wondering if Status should be in bold ; if not please use back ticks.
- Avoid using should
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#s

> Whenever possible, rewrite in a more direct way. Do not use should to refer to an action that must be performed. For example, when parameters must be reset, write “Reset the parameters” and not “You should reset the parameters”.

Author: Fixed.

> . After the Argo CD instance is created, verify that the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter in the config map resource is updated successfully by completing the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After the Argo CD instance is created, verify that the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter in the `ConfigMap` resource is updated successfully by completing the following steps.
```

- https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#config-map
> In Red Hat OpenShift, a config map holds configuration data for pods to consume. The API object for a config map is ConfigMap.

Author: Fixed.

.. In the *Administrator* perspective, go to *Workload* -> *ConfigMaps*.

> .. In the *Project* option, select *Argo CD* namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. In the *Project* option, select the *Argo CD* namespace.
```

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * declarative_clusterconfig/configuring-an-openshift-cluster-by-deploying-an-application-with-cluster-configurations.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-configuring-respect-rbac-using-gitops_{context}"]
= Configuring respectRBAC using {gitops-title}

The `respectRBAC` feature in Argo CD controls how Argo CD watches resources on a cluster. By default, Argo CD attempts to watch all Kubernetes resources (CRDs) on a cluster at the cluster scope. With the `respectRBAC` feature, you can restrict the ArgoCD controller from discovering or syncing specific resources using only controller RBAC, without manually configuring resource exclusions.

> To enable this feature, set the `.spec.controller.respectRBAC` key in the Argo CD resource. After you set this key, the controller automatically stops watching resources it cannot list or access. For example, if the Argo CD cluster role prevents Argo CD from watching OpenShift Routes, it returns an error during synchronization, stating it cannot watch the resource.

Reviewer 2: How about this:
- After you set this key, the controller automatically stops watching resources it cannot list or access. For example, **_this prevents the case where_** if the Argo CD cluster role prevents Argo CD from watching OpenShift Routes, it returns an error during synchronization, stating it cannot watch the resource.
- (change in **_bold_**)

Adding 'this prevents the case where' makes it clear that enabling this feature should prevent the 'cannot watch the resource' error. WDYT?

Author: Fixed.

You can enable the `respectRBAC` feature by creating an Argo CD instance in the CLI or the Web UI. 

.Pre-requisites

Ensure that you created a namespace and updated it in the *Subscription* resource, so it can host a cluster-scoped Argo CD instance. For more information, see Using an Argo CD instance to manage cluster-scoped resources.

[id="configuring-respectRBAC-using-the-cli_{context}"]
== Configuring respectRBAC using the CLI

You can configure `respectRBAC` feature in the CLI.

.Procedure

. Create a YAML object file, for example, `argo-cd-resource.yaml`, to configure the `respectRBAC` feature using the CLI. 
+
.Example create an Argo CD instance using the respectRBAC feature
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd #<1>
spec:
  controller:
    respectRBAC: strict #<2>
----
<1> Specify the name of the Argo CD instance.

> <2> Specify the value of the `.spec.controller.respectRBAC` key in the Argo CD resource. You can set it to `normal` or `strict`. If the value is set to `strict`, Argo CD performs additional validations of RBAC resources to determine permissions. This setting increases the number of API calls to the server as it is more accurate compared to `normal`. Switch to `strict` if Argo CD reports errors indicating it cannot access resources when the value is set to `normal`. If the value is set to `normal`, Argo CD determines its RBAC permissions by attempting to list each resource. By default, the value is set to `normal`, as it balances accuracy and speed because resource listing is a lightweight operation.

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f argocd-resource.yaml -n argo-cd-instance #<1>
----
<1> Specify the name of the YAML file that includes the Argo CD resource and the namespace that hosts the Argo CD instance.
+
. Verify the successful installation of Argo CD by checking the status of the `argoCD.status.phase` field. The {gitops-shortname} Operator sets this field to `Available` when the installation is complete. Run the following command to check the status:
+
[source,terminal]
----
kubectl get argocd <argocd-instance-name> -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' #<1>
----
<1> Replace <argocd-instance-name> with the name of your Argo CD instance for example, `example-argocd`.

[id="configuring-respectRBAC-using-the-web-UI_{context}"]
== Configuring respectRBAC using the Web UI

You can configure `respectRBAC` in the Web UI.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {OCP} web console. 

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

. Select *{gitops-title}* from the installed Operators list and click the *Argo CD* tab.
+

> After successful installation, the Argo CD instance is listed under *Argo CD* tab and its Status should be set to *Available*.

Reviewer 2: As written, these 'web ui' steps will only VERIFY that respectRBAC is enabled. 

If these steps are supposed to be enabling the feature (similar to CLI above), then you need additional steps to set the following in  ArgoCD instance, similar to CLI case above:
```
spec:
  controller:
    respectRBAC: strict
```

Reviewer 2: I would recommend either removing this section (and only describing how to enable via CLI) or reaching our to owner of the feature (Jayendra) for more info on how to enable via web UI.

Author: Ok, I have made the change as per your feedback. PTAL.

+
. After the Argo CD instance is created, verify that the value in the Argo CD resource is updated in the *YAML* tab successfully by completing the following steps.

.. In the *Administrator* perspective, go to *Workload* -> *ConfigMaps*.
.. In the *Project* option, select *Argo CD* namespace.

> .. Select the *YAML* tab to view the `resource.respectRBAC` field.

Reviewer 2: - ".. In the *Project* option, select *Argo CD* namespace."
- I think we are missing a step here, where user should select `argocd-cm` Configmap.
- ".. Select the *YAML* tab to view the `resource.respectRBAC` field."

Author: Hey I removed this step based on your earlier recommendation for config maps. Do we still need to retain this step @jgwest?

Reviewer 2: Yes, this new step is required. Without this, there is no 'YAML' tab to view, IIRC, and thus the steps don't make sense.

Author: Ok, I have made the change as per your feedback. PTAL.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * declarative_clusterconfig/configuring-an-openshift-cluster-by-deploying-an-application-with-cluster-configurations.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-configuring-respect-rbac-using-gitops_{context}"]
= Configuring respectRBAC using {gitops-title}

> The `respectRBAC` configuration feature in Argo CD controls how Argo CD watches resources on a cluster. By default, Argo CD attempts to watch all Kubernetes resources (CRDs) on a cluster at the cluster scope. You can restrict the ArgoCD controller from discovering or syncing specific resources using only controller RBAC, without manually configuring resource exclusions.

Reviewer 2: `By default, Argo CD attempts (...). You can restrict the ArgoCD controller from discovering`

With this wording, it is not clear that the second sentence (Beginning with 'You can') is referencing the new feature. As worded, it could also be referencing the default from the previous sentence.

An alternative would be `By default, Argo CD attempts (...). With the respectRBAC feature, you can...`

Author: Fixed.

> To enable this feature, set the `resource.respectRBAC` key in the `argocd-cm` config map. After you set this key, the controller automatically stops watching resources it cannot list or access. For example, if the Argo CD cluster role prevents Argo CD from watching OpenShift Routes, it returns an error during synchronization, stating it cannot watch the resource.

Author: Fixed.

[NOTE]
====
You can only enable `respectRBAC` by modifying the `argocd-cm` config map. If a user does not have permission to edit the config map, they cannot enable this feature. The `respectRBAC` feature of the {gitops-shortname} Operator allows users to update `respectRBAC` configurations in the config map through the Argo CD resource.

> ====

Author: Removed as per discussion with Jonathan. Fixed.

You can enable the `respectRBAC` feature by creating an Argo CD instance in the CLI or the Web UI. 

.Pre-requisites

Ensure that you created a namespace and updated it in the *Subscription* resource, so it can host a cluster-scoped Argo CD instance. For more information, see Using an Argo CD instance to manage cluster-scoped resources.

[id="configuring-respectRBAC-using-the-cli_{context}"]
== Configuring respectRBAC using the CLI

You can configure `respectRBAC` in the CLI.

.Procedure

> . Create a YAML object file, for example, `openshift-gitops-sub.yaml`, to configure the `respectRBAC` feature using the CLI. 

Reviewer 2: Don't use a YAML file named `*-sub.yaml` if it doesn't contain a subscription.

Author: Discussed further with @jgwest and he has suggested us to use a file name like this **argo-cd-resource.yaml**.

Author: Fixed.

+
.Example create an Argo CD instance using the respectRBAC feature
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1

Author: Fixed.

kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd #<1>
spec:
  controller:
    respectRBAC: strict #<2>
----
<1> Specify the name of the Argo CD instance.

> <2> Specify the value of the `respectRBAC` feature in the `argocd-cm` config map. You can set it to normal or strict. If the value is set to strict, the {gitops-shortname} Operator strictly enforces Kubernetes RBAC permissions. The {gitops-shortname} Operator discovers and syncs only the resources for which it has explicit permissions to access. If the value is set to normal, the {gitops-shortname} Operator assumes that it has complete access to all the resources, and throws an error if it cannot access the resource.

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think description of strict and normal needs to be changed.

> <2> Specify the value of the `respectRBAC` feature in the `argocd-cm` config map. You can set it to normal or strict. If the value is set to strict, the {gitops-shortname} Operator strictly enforces Kubernetes RBAC permissions. The {gitops-shortname} Operator discovers and syncs only the resources for which it has explicit permissions to access. If the value is set to normal, the {gitops-shortname} Operator assumes that it has complete access to all the resources, and throws an error if it cannot access the resource.

Author: Fixed.

. Apply the changes to the YAML object file by running the following command.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f openshift-gitops-sub.yaml \// <1>

> -n openshift-gitops-operator <2>

Reviewer 2: `oc apply -f argo-cd-resource.yaml -n argo-cd-instance`

> -n openshift-gitops-operator <2>

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
kubectl get argocd <argocd-instance-name> -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' #<1>
----
<1> Replace <argocd-instance-name> with the name of your Argo CD instance for example, `example-argocd`.

[id="configuring-respectRBAC-using-the-web-UI_{context}"]
== Configuring respectRBAC using the Web UI

You can configure `respectRBAC` in the Web UI.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {OCP} web console. 

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

. Select *{gitops-title}* from the installed Operators list and click the *Argo CD* tab.
+
After successful installation, the Argo CD instance is listed under *Argo CD* tab and its Status should be set to *Available*.
+
. After the Argo CD instance is created, verify that the value in the Argo CD resource is updated in `argocd-cm` config map successfully by completing the following steps.

.. In the *Administrator* perspective, go to *Workload* -> *ConfigMaps*.
.. In the *Project* option, select *Argo CD* namespace.

> .. In the `argocd-cm` config map, you can now view the `resource.respectRBAC` field.

Author: Fixed.

apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd #<1>
spec:
  controller:
    respectRBAC: strict #<2>
----
<1> Specify the name of the Argo CD instance.
<2> Specify the value of the `.spec.controller.respectRBAC` key in the Argo CD resource. You can set it to `normal` or `strict`. If the value is set to `strict`, Argo CD performs additional validations of RBAC resources to determine permissions. This setting increases the number of API calls to the server as it is more accurate compared to `normal`. Switch to `strict` if Argo CD reports errors indicating it cannot access resources when the value is set to `normal`. If the value is set to `normal`, Argo CD determines its RBAC permissions by attempting to list each resource. By default it is recommended to start with `normal`, as it balances accuracy and speed because resource listing is a lightweight operation.

. Apply the changes to the YAML object file by running the following command.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f argocd-resource.yaml -n argo-cd-instance #<1>
----
<1> Specify the name of the YAML file that includes the Argo CD resource and the namespace that hosts the Argo CD instance.
+

> . Verify the successful installation of Argo CD by checking the status of the `argoCD.status.phase` field. The {gitops-shortname} Operator sets this field to `Available` when the installation is complete. Run the following command to check the status:

Reviewer 2: `argoCD.status.phase` -> `ArgoCD` `.status.phase`

+
[source,terminal]
----

> kubectl get argocd <argocd-instance-name> -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' #<1>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
oc get argocd <argocd-instance-name> -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}' #<1>
```

Author: Fixed.

----

> <1> Replace `<argocd-instance-name>` with the name of your Argo CD instance for example, `example-argocd`.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion: Mention the argocd namespace using `-n` considering this was added while applying the resource

Reviewer 4: `kubectl get argocd <argocd-instance-name> -n <argocd namespace> -o jsonpath='{.status.phase}'`

Author: Fixed.

[id="configuring-respectRBAC-using-the-web-UI_{context}"]
== Configuring respectRBAC using the Web UI

You can configure `respectRBAC` in the Web UI.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {OCP} web console. 

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. Create or select the project where you want to install the user-defined Argo CD instance from the *Project* list.

. Select *{gitops-title}* from the installed Operators list and click the *Argo CD* tab.

. Configure the `respectRBAC` parameter in the *Argo CD* tab.

. Click *Create*.
+
After successful installation, the Argo CD instance is listed under *Argo CD* tab and its Status should be set to *Available*.
+
. After the Argo CD instance is created, verify that the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter in the config map resource is updated successfully by completing the following steps.

.. In the *Administrator* perspective, go to *Workload* -> *ConfigMaps*.
.. In the *Project* option, select *Argo CD* namespace.
.. Select the `argocd-cm` config map.
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  controller:
    respectRBAC: strict

> ----

Author: Fixed.

> .. Select the *YAML* tab to view the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter.

Reviewer 4: This section is missing in the CLI procedure part

Author: To ensure that I understand this feedback correctly, do you want me to add these steps in the CLI section of the document **as-is** after the 3rd step?

Reviewer 4: As is wouldn't be a pure CLI way of doing it so I would recommend to add something like

`oc get cm argocd-cm -n <argocd namespace> -o yaml` for verifying the content

Author: Ok, this command would be used to that the `resource.respectRBAC` parameter in the config map resource is updated successfully? And it would be the 4th step in the CLI section?
